Body: If the problem is so serious, are there some effective measures?
One possible way is that government could formulate legal minimum wage policy to guarantee that medical workers receive enough pay during normal working hours. Even in cities, many doctors earn as little as ¥5000 a month or less. Medical staff might be under the pressure brought by money. At this time, overtime work is not a choice but a must. Increase in regular wage may solve this problem, for the sake of the fact that it allows medical staff to choose whether they work overtime or not freely. Although there are some advantages in advocating such a practice, it may be not practical for relevant departments to carry out. You know, medical workers’ salary is always fixed at a low level and to change it requires financial support from the government budget. It’s not easy.
Besides, it is also recommended that government set up working time limit. Working time limit allows medical workers to work overtime in a reasonable way. It not only enables medical workers to work overtime, but also prevents medical workers from overwork. Let me give you an example. Japan has made a bold attempt on this new road. Since March 2019, a cap on overtime work has been set as 100 hours per month. Chinese medical departments could follow the example of Japan and make appropriate adjustments according to national conditions. However, there are some evident shortcomings of this method, which is the question that has exists for a long time: law enforcement and supervision are weak. Moreover, monitoring time is a burdensome work, making supervision more arduous, which is the obstacle Japan have met.
To tackle the issue at its root, universities could reform the medical education curriculum, making it more related to practice and appealing to students. The curriculum is suggested to be more focused on clinical science to enhance utility. In this aspect, Hong Kong actually gives a marvelous example. The University of Hong Kong designs a new medical curriculum which lays equal stress on the basic and clinical sciences, which satisfies students. It proved to be practical and successful, giving an insight into the significance of reform. Even though the first method increases the wage of medical staff and second method sets some limit, medical staff still need to work overtime assuming that there are too many patients. The third solution seems perfect to some degree. But the disadvantage of this method had better not be overlooked, which is that the process may be a little bit long since reform is not an easy thing to accomplish.